To add such a guard, we can run ionic generate again and there in the dropdown,
we also have a guard.
So let's select guard here and now the path will be in the auth folder and then I will name it auth guard.
Now there is a lot of auth in here but the name just makes sense because we're checking the authentication
status
but this now gave me that new auth.guard.ts file here and the testing file which I'll get rid of.
So the auth.guard.ts file here
implements can activate as a default.
Now in case you don't know how guards work in Angular, guards are in the end also just services,
which is why this is also provided in root but guards can then be added to routes, we can attach them
to a route and then depending on how we attach it, a method defined in that guard like canActivate is
executed and only if it returns true,
the navigation is allowed and the user may go where he wanted to go.
Now I want to add that auth guard in my app routing module to places and bookings, to these two routes.
Since we lazy load our content here, canActivate is actually the wrong guard because that would mean
that the code for the lazy loaded module gets downloaded before the guard actually executes and that means
if we prevents the navigation, we downloaded the code for nothing.
So instead we should use canLoad which actually is a guard that runs before lazy loaded code is fetched.
Now we don't need to implement canActivate here but the canLoad method and you can press command
or on Windows control and click on canLoad to go to the definition of that and there you see how that
canLoad method should look like. So you can just copy that from there and move that into your auth guard
and now you just need to import all the things it requires here,
the light bulb here helps you with that, if you click on what's missing and then on the light bulb, you
can simply add all these imports and at the end, you must not have a semicolon but opening and closing
curly braces because this is a method definition here.
Now you can get rid of all the imports which are not required and now in here, we're getting an error
because in the guard, we need to return a boolean, true or false or a promise that eventually resolves
to a boolean or an observable that eventually yields a boolean.
We'll use an observable later in the course,
for now I will just return true or false
but of course I don't want to hardcode it like this.
Instead I want to return true or false depending on whether the user is authenticated or not
and we have that information in the auth service, here with user is authenticated.
Now thankfully, we can inject services into services, so by adding a constructor to the auth guard, we can
inject the auth service into the auth guard. So auth service like this,
make sure to add the import here at the top
and then here you can return the result of this auth service user is authenticated because this will
be a boolean.
Of course if the user is not authenticated, I want to not just block the navigation, I want to provide
an alternative instead and for this, we can manually redirect the user.
So here we can inject our router and I will check if this auth service user is authenticated.
If this is not true, hence the exclamation mark here,
if this is not true, then I want to use my router and navigate to /auth, to the auth page where the
user can login and that should be navigate by URL therefore.
So now we can go to /auth if the user is not authenticated and this code will then still execute
and it will return false
to prevent the original navigation we wanted to do, otherwise if the user is authenticated,
this code will never run
and here this will return true,
so we may continue.
Now we just need to attach the guard and I want to attach the guard to my app component, to my app routing
module, to the places and bookings routes. You attach a guard by adding the name of the guard,
something like canActivate or in this case, canLoad here and then this takes an array because you can
add multiple guard services for one and the same type of card.
Here I only have one though and this will be my auth guard.
You need to import auth guard from your auth folder and there the auth guard file and then,
well this is all you need to add and the same of course for bookings.
So here
I'll also add canLoad and add my auth guard here as a canLoad guard.
Now these routes are protected and that also is then true for all their child routes.
So if the page now reloads and user is authenticated is set to false by default, we indeed end up here
on the login page.
Now logging in doesn't help because if you click this, it will be set to true but as you reload your
page, this state will be lost so it's back to false again.
Of course when logging in, I want to navigate though, I want to go to another page and therefore here
on the auth page, in on login, I want to navigate, so I'll inject my router here
from @angular/router, this import needs to be added at the top of your page and then in on login,
there I will call this router navigate and I want to go to, I can navigate by URL actually, I want
to go to /places tabs discover let's say. Now the route guard will of course still protect this
root but now that we do login, we are actually authenticated, so we'll be able to make it through
the guard. So if I hit login there,
here we are and I can now use this app as before but if I reload, we lose that state, we're back to false
and therefore we're back to the authenticate page.
Now one thing I of course want to add is the logout button. We do have it here in the app.component.html
file, we trigger on logout when we click it and in on logout,
I now want to use the logout method from the auth service.
So let's inject the auth service here in the app component
and for that, you need to add the import to auth service, to that auth service file and then add on logout,
we can call this auth service logout
and now with that if this reloads and I do login, I can logout but we're not redirected.
Well we can see that we succeeded
if we now try to go to your bookings because this tries to load a page that is protected by a guard
and since I logged out and user is authenticated therefore was reset to false, we fail
but obviously I want to redirect right when I click logout here.
Now for that, we just have to inject the router again into the app component here, so private router like
this,
of course imported from @angular/router
and then when on logout is triggered, I will call this router, navigate by URL auth and this means
that
now with that, this page will reload,
I'm logged out by default, if I login and I now press logout, I'm redirected and I can login again
of course.
So this is how we can add auth guard and how we can use that default Angular feature in an Ionic Angular
app as well.